---
last_modified_on: "2021-04-12"
title: "AIOZ @ CVPR 2021"
description: '🏆 Publication @ #1 Top Conference under Engineering & Computer Science'
author_github: "https://github.com/aioz-ai"
hide_on_release_notes: false
pr_numbers: []
year: "2021 - Q2"
tags: ["type: highlights","domain: research"]
---
## Overview
**CVPR 2021:** The Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition is an annual conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, which is regarded as one of the most important conferences in its field. CVPR 2021 will take place virtually from June 19th to June 25th.

Visit Conference Website at: http://cvpr2021.thecvf.com/

It is an honor that AIOZ is having one publication at the Workshop on Continual Learning in Computer Vision, CVPR 2021.

## AIOZ research @ CVPR 2021
### ✨ Graph-based Person Signature for Person Re-Identifications
*The task of person re-identification (ReID) is to match images of the same person over multiple non-overlapping camera views. Due to the variations in visual factors, previous works have investigated how the person identity, body parts, and attributes benefit the person ReID problem. However, the correlations between attributes, body parts, and within each attribute are not fully utilized. In this paper, we propose a new method to effectively aggregate detailed person descriptions (attributes labels) and visual features (body parts and global features) into a graph, namely Graph-based Person Signature, and utilize Graph Convolutional Networks to learn the topological structure of the visual signature of a person. The graph is integrated into a multi-branch multi-task framework for person re-identification. The extensive experiments are conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach on two large-scale datasets, including Market-1501 and DukeMTMC-ReID. Our approach achieves competitive results among the state of the art and outperforms other attribute-based or mask-guided methods.*

:rocket: Github: https://github.com/aioz-ai/CVPRW21_GPS
